All right.
Let's work on pagination now.
So we've got however many items
they're just dumped
onto this one page
or onto the products page.
We see all of them.
We want to be able
to have like four
or three or 10 per page.
And then we want a listing
of how many possible pages there are.
So I've just written out
sort of like the approach
that we'll take
to build this pagination is
let's just like first
render the actual link
so that we can click to them.
And then that will 404
because those pages
won't be available.
So we'll do the next
is we'll make dynamic routing
where products forward slash one
or products four slash two,
et cetera like that.
Then the third thing is
we need to filter the products
on the current page.
So if we're on page two
and we're showing two per page
then we need to show
these two right here
instead of the first two right there.
And then finally,
the toughest one
is dealing with the cash.
Like what happens when you have
three pages loaded into the cash?
And then all of a sudden
you delete an item on page two
or you add an item on page one,
things get bumped either way.
We'll look at how to tackle that.
So let's go and make a new component.
We'll go into
our components folder here,
make a new file.
Let's call that a pagination.js.
And we will export
default function pagination,
that will take in what page
we are currently on.
And then from that,
we will first let's actually
just deal with the SEO
part of this cause I'm sick
of having just local hosts on there.
So we have a head,
we'll have a title tag
I'll say sick fits page.
And then we'll pass the page.
We don't need that dollar sign of
and then we'll say
of the total number
that we have here.
And then we also need
the pagination styles.
We'll wrap everything in that.
So pagination styles.
And these things need to be imported.
So the head needs to be imported.
It doesn't look like an auto import.
So we'll do it ourselves.
So import head from next head
and then the pagination styles.
That one's not wanting to import either.
Let's go into our styles.
Here we go.
Import pagination styles
from styles, pagination styles.
Okay, now we need to,
let's start to render out.
Oh, I forgot to put a return
in front of here.
Oh, here we go.
Let's go to our page that renders
all of these items
and we'll pop one above
and one below it.
So that is in our index,
which our index is simply
just importing it from our products.
Here we go.
And in here,
we will render out our pagination.
And the kind of
the cool thing about that
is we can actually put one
below the products as well.
And all we need to do
is pass it that one prop,
which is our page
and then the page is going
to be passed in
via the query prams.
Right now, we don't know
which page that is.
So what we'll do is
we'll just hard-code page one.
All right, so back to
our pagination component,
we need a couple of things.
We need a link
to the previous page.
We need a link to the next page.
We need how many total pages there are
and what current page we are on.
So let's go ahead and do that.
We need the link from next jazz
and we'll import that,
there we go,
that one imported.
And here we're just do an arrow Prev,
these little arrows that I do,
these are just Unicode arrows.
If you Google Unicode arrow,
you should find them.
I have a little shortcut to arrow, arrow
and arrow arrow just because
I like using these arrows
and tweets and emails
and things like that.
So we have our prev,
we have our next
then inside of here
we have page underscore, underscore
of underscore underscore,
and then we need to also tell it
how many items total.
Oh, failed prop.
The prop pref expects a string.
Oh yeah.
We forgot to pass that.
We don't have those numbers yet.
So let's just,
just put it to forward slash.
Okay, cool.
So now we have our pagination here.
We have our previous,
we have our next,
how many pages we have
in our items total.
So I think the first thing
we need to do is
in order to calculate,
how many pages do you have?
You need two pieces of information.
How many items are there in total
and how many per page
are we working with?
So to get the total number of items
we can write a little query for that.
If we go to our backend again,
go to our API Explorer here,
we can write ourselves a little query
that says sign like query.
And if we want to query
like all products
and then we wrote the ID,
that's not really scalable
because this will literally return
to you an ID of every single product.
So what happens if you have
6,000 products, right?
You can't make a request.
You can,
but that'll be megabytes of IDs.
And we don't necessarily want that.
So Keystone actually provides us
with meta queries.
They start with underscore
and you say all
and you see there's all users meta,
all products meta,
and all product images.
Every single type that you have
it will give you the metadata about it.
So in our case,
it's all products meta.
And then in there,
really the only thing that you
can query is the count.
So now if we run that,
you'll see we get the actual
how many products
are in the database.
And then we no longer need
to query every single product.
We can simply just ask
for how many are in there.
So we can go back here
and do the whole song
and dance again of making a query.
So const pagination.
Oh, I've gotta spell it right.
Underscore query is equal to GQL.
Boom, imported it.
And here query
and wait, you know what?
Let's just copy this.
What are we,
what are we writing stuff
like suckers for that
we already wrote it.
Okay, there's no variables
or anything that needs to go there.
In this case,
you don't need to name the query
since there's no arguments or variables,
but you can just
put that in there as well.
Then if we want that data,
I simply just go here.
Say const, if error loading data
is equal to use query
and then you pass it,
your pagination query
we need to import use query.
And there's that right there.
And we'll just say,
if loading return,
you can return null
if you want nothing to render
or you can return
loading dot, dot, dot
depends on what you want to show.
Same thing for the error.
We can return our error.
What did we call it?
Error, error message, yeah.
So what we're going
to import it up here
and return it's not error,
it's display error.
And then we got a pass,
the actual error itself as props
which is error.
All right, so with that,
we should be able to have the data
and we can go into here
and say page
or not page items.
So it should be able
to interpolate how many items
there are just data
dot count items total.
Go back to our actual application here.
And it just has items total.
So maybe it's not working
for whatever reason.
So it would just go ahead
and log out our data,
see what we're working with here.
Oh yeah, it's .allproductmeta.count.
So what I'll do is
let's just make a little const.
We'll make a little variable up here
count is equal to data
dot all products meta.
And then here,
we can just use the count variable
because we're gonna need that one
many times over,
there we go,
13 items total.
Okay, so that's the first thing.
Second thing is
how many pages are there?
Well, you have to know
how many are going
to be done per page.
And it's best not
to hard-code that type of value
in your calculations,
because if you ever need
to change that,
or even if you want your user
to change how many per page
then it needs to be stored
in a variable somewhere.
So I am going to stick it
in our config
and look, we've already done that.
So expert cons per page
is equal to four.
And if we go back here,
we can import that value.
So import per page from,
we've got to go up a level into config.
And then if we want to know
how many pages there are,
we say const page count is equal to
you take the actual count
and divide it by how many
we are viewing per page.
And then we can take
that underscore here
and pop in the page count.
Now, that's gonna give us a decimal
because sometimes you have
not a full page of them.
So what we need to do
is we need to get the upper bound.
You don't want around that
because there's always gonna,
even if there's just like
one item on the last page,
like there is in this case
there still needs to be
a last page to show that.
So what you do is wrap that
in math that ceil
and that will give us
the upper bound of that
to the next whole number.
There we go.
So page four.
Now, if we change that value to two
that number of pages
goes up to seven.
You see, oh, I love,
love doing stuff like this
because look at how,
how quick it will update itself.
See if you have 10 per page,
it's only two pages.
So let's, let's do it on two.
That way when you delete items
you still have the pagination
working pretty well.
Last thing we want to do
is we'll take this page value here
and that's being passed in.
So page whatever of count.
So that's defaulting to just one
because we are hard coding
passing it right here
but we'll make that dynamic
in just a second.
You see, we have page one of seven
being popped up.
So what we can do now
is we can dynamically
calculate the previous
and next pages
based on that page variable.
So the href of this link
is going to be equal to
forward slash products forward slash
and take the page minus one.
And if we hover over that,
we see zero,
we'll deal with the fact that
that's not actually something
in just a second
and then take that
and paste it on the next one.
And then I do plus one.
And that should,
there we go forward slash two
when you hover over top
of that thing.
So if we want to disable that link
you could programmatically render this.
Like, what you could do here
is you could say,
if the page is equal to one,
because if we're
on the first page
or if it is not equal to one
then we could render out the link, right?
So something like that,
where you do and, and,
I got to put extra equals there.
There we go.
So you see how
the previous button is gone.
And if we were to go to change
this page to two,
it should show up.
There we go.
See the preview button is there.
I don't like that
because I don't like it
when things shift
based on how many items there are
especially when you're clicking
next, next, next
and the buttons are moving
from under your cursor.
So what I like to do is
if we take that back now is
I like to just disable the link
from happening if it has,
if it's a page that doesn't exist.
So what we can do here
is we can say Aria dash disabled.
Again, I'm using
the accessibility attribute here
and then we'll use CSS
to actually stop someone
from clicking disable the previous one,
if the page is less
or equal to one
or you could say,
if it is equal to one.
And now that should have,
if we take a look at it.
It should have
a disabled attribute on it,
but does not.
Why would that be?
So let's try just manually pass
are you disabled equals
equal to true.
I have an inkling, yeah.
See, none of those are are showing.
I wonder if we just put
other random stuff on here,
data dash cool is equal to true.
You see these attributes
are not being passed down.
And I have an inkling feeling
that you cannot just pass
random attributes to the link tag.
And if you want to put
additional attributes on
your actual rendered anchor link,
you put an anchor link
inside of it.
So I'm gonna change this
around a quick sack
is if you just put an A tag
with no attributes on it
and then put the
previous inside of there,
this is just an option.
This used to be the default index, yes,
but now they allow you
to not put it.
And then that will,
that still renders out
the exact same thing.
But I believe now I can put
attributes like Aria disabled
on that link itself
and it should show up.
Yes, see, look it,
see how it shows up here.
So that's a little,
a little thing
you should need to know
about next yes is
if you're going to be putting things
other than prev
and the other props
that are on link,
then you have to nest
an anchor link inside of it.
The only weird thing being
that the href,
the href goes on the link
and not the actual anchor itself.
So I can get rid of that here.
And you see, see this,
data dot disabled
or Aria disabled on it.
If we take a look at
our dev tools here, we have,
some CSS being applied,
color is equal to gray
and pointer events, none.
So that both visually tells the user
that you cannot click it.
And also accessibly tells any users
that they can not click it
because it is a disabled link.
Next up, we got to do the,
the next link.
Next up we need the next link.
So we'll go do the same thing.
We'll take the next text here.
We'll open and close an A tag,
and then we'll put the Aria
that's disabled on that one.
And for that one,
we'll just say if the page
is greater or equal to,
what's that?
The number of pages
And do we, oh, page count,
not pages.
And now I believe,
so in our case,
we have seven pages.
So if we were to go
manually change this
to page seven,
that should disable itself.
Boom, and you'll see the previous one
is now no longer disabled
cause we're on page seven.
All right, let's see where we're at.
Render the links, done.
Allow for dynamic routing.
No, we haven't done that just yet.
We've just rendered out the links.
So in the next video,
what we'll do is we'll pick it up
and do dynamic routing
and next JS as well
as we probably can fit
the filtering of the products
in that one as well.